As disciple-makers,
we are somewhat like a carpenter
who has a toolbox, and inside,
he has hand tools and he has power tools.
He likes the power tools because they
save him a lot of time and energy.
He has a power drill
that can penetrate hardwood.
He has a power sander
that can strip away layers of built-up grime.
He has a power nailer
that can nail together pieces very quickly.
Well, likewise, we have a Teaching Toolbox,
and inside, we have many useful tools.
But there’s no question,
the most powerful tool we have is God’s Word.
Notice how the apostle Paul
described God’s Word
at Hebrews 4:12:
“For the word of God
is alive and exerts power
“and is sharper than any two-edged sword
“and pierces even
to the dividing of soul and spirit,
“and of joints from the marrow,
and is able to discern
thoughts and intentions of the heart.”
So Paul says it’s like a sword
that can pierce right to the heart.
Now, is that important
in our disciple-making work?
Yes, because we cannot read hearts.
But when we use God’s powerful Word,
we begin to discern whether the person
is “rightly disposed for everlasting life”
and we can perhaps help that person
—like using the carpenter’s power tools.
Why, it can penetrate
right to the heart of a person.
It can strip away what’s on the surface
and help the person
realize what he really is.
It can really nail down the points.
The apostle Paul
realized God’s Word was dynamic.
That’s why it is described that way.
It’s dynamic because it comes
from the living God, Jehovah.
You see, these words
are not just words on a page.
Jesus said that these
are words from the mouth of Jehovah.
A brother asked this question,
“If you were preaching
from house to house with Jehovah himself,
would you do all the speaking
or would you allow him to talk?”
Yes, when we open the Bible,
we are allowing Jehovah to speak,
and that is powerful.
The apostle Paul went
to the city of Thessalonica,
and he found Gentiles
worshipping lifeless idols.
But what happened?
At 1 Thessalonians 1:9,
Paul wrote that these Gentiles
had ‘turned away from their lifeless idols
to serve the true and living God.’
How did that happen?
In chapter 2, verse 13, Paul noted
that they had ‘received the word of God’
and that word
was ‘at work in those believers.’
Paul rejoiced with those results.
And for us too, one of our greatest joys
is to see how a new disciple
allows God’s Word to work in him,
and he makes big changes.
In the following dramatization,
notice how Neeta
unleashes the power of God’s Word.
Yo, so tell me.
Hi again.
You’re really quite stealthy.
Brilliant, right?
It’s perfect when I’m late for class,
which is always.
Right.
So last week you spoke about promises,
and I’m not about church,
but I am about promises.
So?
OK, well, if these are God’s promises,
wouldn’t it make sense to go to his Word
to find out how to enjoy them?
Seems right.
OK.
This is John 17:3.
Would you like to read it?
Um, out loud?
Really?
Don’t you know what it says?
I do, but it’s nice to hear it again.
“This means everlasting life,
“their coming to know you,
the only true God,
and the one
whom you sent, Jesus Christ.”
So, based on this,
what means everlasting life?
Getting to know God.
But how can you get to know something
you’re not even sure exists?
Would you like to explore that answer
next time you come by?
Who said anything about next time?
Oh, um.
Ah, I’m just winding you up.
See you later.
Did you see how Neeta
unleashed the power of God’s Word?
She asked a simple question
that led to reading John 17:3.
And this is a simple but powerful scripture.
Jesus was the most skillful Disciple-Maker.
He based his teaching
completely on God’s Word.
And when it was possible,
he actually read from the Scriptures.
For example, you may remember
the account in Luke chapter 4,
when Jesus went back
to his hometown of Nazareth,
he entered the synagogue
and he read from the scroll of Isaiah.
This is the prophecy about the Anointed One
who would preach good news
in God’s acceptable year.
But Jesus didn’t stop
at just reading the scripture;
he explained its meaning.
He said: “Today this scripture
that you just heard is fulfilled.”
And those townspeople
could have understood that
because he had left the town,
left his carpentry work months earlier,
and had begun his ministry.
Likewise, it’s not enough
for us just to read a scripture;
we must explain its meaning.
And Neeta did that.
You remember after John 17:3 was read,
she asked this question,
“So based on this,
what means everlasting life?”
And the girl got it.
It means getting to know God.
What can we do, though,
if our listener doesn’t get it?
Well, we can just reread
the key words in that verse.
Also, friends,
we must be careful
not to assume that people understand
the terms we commonly use.
For example, we often talk about the Kingdom.
Well, to our listener,
they may be thinking of heaven.
They may be thinking it’s a condition
of one’s heart, not a government.
So we have to explain.
Also, be patient as we use God’s Word.
Faith in God and appreciation
for the Scriptures take time to grow.
And Jesus illustrated this
at Mark 4:26.
Let’s just read that:
“So he went on to say:
“‘In this way the Kingdom of God is just
as when a man casts seeds on the ground.’”
Yes, like a farmer,
when we spread the Kingdom message,
we’re casting seeds,
but do we expect those seeds
to sprout overnight?
Jesus explains
the growth process in verse 28:
“On its own the ground bears fruit gradually,
“first the stalk, then the head,
finally the full grain in the head.”
So it’s a gradual process.
The farmer waters
and nurtures the seed, but he must wait.
Likewise, we need to be
patient disciple-makers.
It may take many return visits
before we actually start a Bible study.
But on each return visit,
let’s try to help the person
to progressively build faith in God’s Word.
Here’s an example
of how we could help a person
come to appreciate that the Bible
has practical up-to-date advice.
One sister does this:
She asks: “What would you say
is the key to getting along with people?
May I read a proverb from the Bible?”
And she reads Proverbs 17:14, which says:
“Beginning a fight
is like opening a floodgate;
before the quarrel
breaks out, take your leave.”
And then she asks,
“Do you think that this advice
could help us to get along with others?”
A reasonable person would say yes.
How can we help a person build faith
that the Bible
is a book of reliable prophecy?
Well, on one return visit,
we could briefly discuss
the prophecy at Isaiah 13:20.
This says that the city of Babylon
would ‘never again be inhabited.’
Well, 50 miles south of Baghdad, Iraq,
are the ruins of Babylon.
No one lives there,
and no one has for centuries.
How can we help someone build faith
that there exists a Creator?
Simply read Hebrews 3:4:
“Every house is constructed by someone,
but the one
who constructed all things is God.”
And then we could ask:
“If someone told you
that the house you live in
constructed itself, would you believe them?”
Obviously not.
Neither could we really believe
that this whole universe constructed itself.
So brothers and sisters,
this is a powerful tool.
Let’s unleash its power in our ministry.
We will become
more effective disciple-makers,
and we will overflow with joy as we see
that Word of God at work in a new believer.
Brother David Splane,
a member of the Governing Body,
will now present
the next part of this symposium:
“Experience the Joy of Disciple-Making
—Improve Your Skills
—Illustrating Key Points.”